Index,Name,Description
0,Access Modeling,"Access modeling identifies and records the access permissions granted to administrators, users, groups, and systems."
1,Account Locking,The process of temporarily disabling user accounts on a system or domain.
2,Active Certificate Analysis,Actively collecting PKI certificates by connecting to the server and downloading its server certificates for analysis.
3,Active Logical Link Mapping,"Active logical link mapping sends and receives network traffic as a means to map the whole data link layer, where the links represent logical data flows rather than physical connection"
4,Active Physical Link Mapping,Active physical link mapping sends and receives network traffic as a means to map the physical layer.
5,Administrative Network Activity Analysis,Detection of unauthorized use of administrative network protocols by analyzing network activity against a baseline.
6,Application Configuration Hardening,Modifying an application's configuration to reduce its attack surface.
7,Application Hardening,
8,Asset Inventory,
9,Asset Vulnerability Enumeration,Asset vulnerability enumeration enriches inventory items with knowledge identifying their vulnerabilities.
10,Authentication Cache Invalidation,Removing tokens or credentials from an authentication cache to prevent further user associated account accesses.
11,Authentication Event Thresholding,"Collecting authentication events, creating a baseline user profile, and determining whether authentication events are consistent with the baseline profile."
12,Authorization Event Thresholding,"Collecting authorization events, creating a baseline user profile, and determining whether authorization events are consistent with the baseline profile."
13,Biometric Authentication,Using biological measures in order to authenticate a user.
14,Bootloader Authentication,Cryptographically authenticating the bootloader software before system boot.
15,Broadcast Domain Isolation,Broadcast isolation restricts the number of computers a host can contact on their LAN.
16,Byte Sequence Emulation,Analyzing sequences of bytes and determining if they likely represent malicious shellcode.
17,Certificate Analysis,"Analyzing Public Key Infrastructure certificates to detect if they have been misconfigured or spoofed using both network traffic, certificate fields and third-party logs."
18,Certificate Pinning,Persisting either a server's X.509 certificate or their public key and comparing that to server's presented identity to allow for greater client confidence in the remote server's identity for SSL connections.
19,Certificate-based Authentication,Requiring a digital certificate in order to authenticate a user.
20,Client-server Payload Profiling,Comparing client-server request and response payloads to a baseline profile to identify outliers.
21,Configuration Inventory,Configuration inventory identifies and records the configuration of software and hardware and their components throughout the organization.
22,Connected Honeynet,"A decoy service, system, or environment, that is connected to the enterprise network, and simulates or emulates certain functionality to the network, without exposing full access to a production system."
23,Connection Attempt Analysis,Analyzing failed connections in a network to detect unauthorized activity.
24,Container Image Analysis,Analyzing a Container Image with respect to a set of policies.
25,Credential Compromise Scope Analysis,Determining which credentials may have been compromised by analyzing the user logon history of a particular system.
26,Credential Eviction,
27,Credential Hardening,
28,Credential Revoking,Deleting a set of credentials permanently to prevent them from being used to authenticate.
29,Credential Rotation,Expiring an existing set of credentials and reissuing a new valid set
30,Credential Transmission Scoping,Limiting the transmission of a credential to a scoped set of relying parties.
31,Data Exchange Mapping,"Data exchange mapping identifies and models the organization's intended design for the flows of the data types, formats, and volumes between systems at the application layer."
32,Data Inventory,"Data inventorying identifies and records the schemas, formats, volumes, and locations of data stored and used on the organization's architecture."
33,Database Query String Analysis,Analyzing database queries to detect [SQL Injection](https://capec.mitre.org/data/definitions/66.html).
34,Dead Code Elimination,"Removing unreachable or ""dead code"" from compiled source code."
35,Decoy Environment,
36,Decoy File,A file created for the purposes of deceiving an adversary.
37,Decoy Network Resource,Deploying a network resource for the purposes of deceiving an adversary.
38,Decoy Object,
39,Decoy Persona,"Establishing a fake online identity to misdirect, deceive, and or interact with adversaries."
40,Decoy Public Release,Issuing publicly released media to deceive adversaries.
41,Decoy Session Token,An authentication token created for the purposes of deceiving an adversary.
42,Decoy User Credential,A Credential created for the purpose of deceiving an adversary.
43,Disk Encryption,Encrypting a hard disk partition to prevent cleartext access to a file system.
44,DNS Allowlisting,Permitting only approved domains and their subdomains to be resolved.
45,DNS Denylisting,"Blocking DNS Network Traffic based on criteria such as IP address, domain name, or DNS query type."
46,DNS Traffic Analysis,"Analysis of domain name metadata, including name and DNS records, to determine whether the domain is likely to resolve to an undesirable host."
47,Domain Account Monitoring,Monitoring the existence of or changes to Domain User Accounts.
48,Domain Name Reputation Analysis,Analyzing the reputation of a domain name.
49,Domain Trust Policy,Restricting inter-domain trust by modifying domain configuration.
50,Driver Load Integrity Checking,Ensuring the integrity of drivers loaded during initialization of the operating system.
51,Dynamic Analysis,"Executing or opening a file in a synthetic ""sandbox"" environment to determine if the file is a malicious program or if the file exploits another program such as a document reader."
52,Email Filtering,Filtering incoming email traffic based on specific criteria.
53,Email Removal,The email removal technique deletes email files from system storage.
54,Emulated File Analysis,Emulating instructions in a file looking for specific patterns.
55,Encrypted Tunnels,Encrypted encapsulation of routable network traffic.
56,Endpoint Health Beacon,"Monitoring the security status of an endpoint by sending periodic messages with health status, where absence of a response may indicate that the endpoint has been compromised."
57,Exception Handler Pointer Validation,Validates that a referenced exception handler pointer is a valid exception handler.
58,Executable Allowlisting,Using a digital signature to authenticate a file before opening.
59,Executable Denylisting,Blocking the execution of files on a host in accordance with defined application policy rules.
60,Execution Isolation,
61,File Access Pattern Analysis,Analyzing the files accessed by a process to identify unauthorized activity.
62,File Analysis,
63,File Carving,Identifying and extracting files from network application protocols through the use of network stream reassembly software.
64,File Content Analysis,Employing a pattern matching algorithm to statically analyze the content of files.
65,File Content Rules,Employing a pattern matching rule language to analyze the content of files.
66,File Creation Analysis,Analyzing the properties of file create system call invocations.
67,File Encryption,Encrypting a file using a cryptographic key.
68,File Eviction,
69,File Hash Reputation Analysis,Analyzing the reputation of a file hash.
70,File Hashing,Employing file hash comparisons to detect known malware.
71,File Integrity Monitoring,Detecting any suspicious changes to files in a computer system.
72,File Removal,The file removal technique deletes malicious artifacts or programs from a computer system.
73,Firmware Behavior Analysis,Analyzing the behavior of embedded code in firmware and looking for anomalous behavior and suspicious activity.
74,Firmware Embedded Monitoring Code,Monitoring code is injected into firmware for integrity monitoring of firmware and firmware data.
75,Firmware Verification,Cryptographically verifying firmware integrity.
76,Forward Resolution Domain Denylisting,Blocking a lookup based on the query's domain name value.
77,Forward Resolution IP Denylisting,Blocking a DNS lookup's answer's IP address value.
78,Hardware Component Inventory,Hardware component inventorying identifies and records the hardware items in the organization's architecture.
79,Hardware-based Process Isolation,Preventing one process from writing to the memory space of another process through hardware based address manager implementations.
80,Hierarchical Domain Denylisting,Blocking the resolution of any subdomain of a specified domain name.
81,Homoglyph Denylisting,Blocking DNS queries that are deceptively similar to legitimate domain names.
82,Homoglyph Detection,Comparing strings using a variety of techniques to determine if a deceptive or malicious string is being presented to a user.
83,Host Reboot,Initiating a host's reboot sequence to terminate all running processes.
84,Host Shutdown,Initiating a host's shutdown sequence to terminate all running processes.
85,Identifier Activity Analysis,Taking known malicious identifiers and determining if they are present in a system.
86,Identifier Analysis,
87,Identifier Reputation Analysis,Analyzing the reputation of an identifier.
88,Inbound Session Volume Analysis,Analyzing inbound network session or connection attempt volume.
89,Inbound Traffic Filtering,Restricting network traffic originating from untrusted networks destined towards a private host or enclave.
90,Indirect Branch Call Analysis,Analyzing vendor specific branch call recording in order to detect ROP style attacks.
91,Input Device Analysis,Operating system level mechanisms to prevent abusive input device exploitation.
92,Integrated Honeynet,The practice of setting decoys in a production environment to entice interaction from attackers.
93,IO Port Restriction,Limiting access to computer input/output (IO) ports to restrict unauthorized devices.
94,IP Reputation Analysis,Analyzing the reputation of an IP address.
95,IPC Traffic Analysis,Analyzing standard inter process communication (IPC) protocols to detect deviations from normal protocol activity.
96,Job Function Access Pattern Analysis,"Detecting anomalies in user access patterns by comparing user access activity to behavioral profiles that categorize users by role such as job title, function, department."
97,Kernel-based Process Isolation,Using kernel-level capabilities to isolate processes.
98,Local Account Monitoring,Analyzing local user accounts to detect unauthorized activity.
99,Local File Permissions,Restricting access to a local file by configuring operating system functionality.
100,Logical Link Mapping,Logical link mapping creates a model of existing or previous node-to-node connections using network-layer data or metadata.
101,Mandatory Access Control,Controlling access to local computer system resources with kernel-level capabilities.
102,Memory Boundary Tracking,Analyzing a call stack for return addresses which point to unexpected  memory locations.
103,Message Analysis,
104,Message Authentication,Authenticating the sender of a message and ensuring message integrity.
105,Message Encryption,Encrypting a message body using a cryptographic key.
106,Message Hardening,
107,Multi-factor Authentication,Requiring proof of two or more pieces of evidence in order to authenticate a user.
108,Network Isolation,
109,Network Mapping,
110,Network Node Inventory,"Network node inventorying identifies and records all the network nodes (hosts, routers, switches, firewalls, etc.) in the organization's architecture."
111,Network Traffic Analysis,
112,Network Traffic Community Deviation,Establishing baseline communities of network hosts and identifying statistically divergent inter-community communication.
113,Network Traffic Filtering,Restricting network traffic originating from any location.
114,Network Traffic Policy Mapping,"Network traffic policy mapping identifies and models the allowed pathways of data at the network, tranport, and/or application levels."
115,Network Vulnerability Assessment,"Network vulnerability assessment relates all the vulnerabilities of a network's components in the context of their configuration and interdependencies and can also include assessing risk emerging from the network's design as a whole, not just the sum of individual network node or network segment vulnerabilities."
116,One-time Password,A one-time password is valid for only one user authentication.
117,Operating System Monitoring,"The operating system software, for D3FEND's purposes, includes the kernel and its process management functions, hardware drivers, initialization or boot logic. It also includes and other key system daemons and their configuration. The monitoring or analysis of these components for unauthorized activity constitute **Operating System Monitoring**."
118,Operational Activity Mapping,
119,Operational Dependency Mapping,"Operational dependency mapping identifies and models the dependencies of the organization's activities on each other and on the organization's performers (people, systems, and services.)  This may include modeling the higher- and lower-level activities of an organization forming a hierarchy, or layering, of the dependencies in an organization's activities."
120,Operational Risk Assessment,"Operational risk assessment identifies and models the vulnerabilities of, and risks to, an organization's activities individually and as a whole."
121,Organization Mapping,"Organization mapping identifies and models the people, roles, and groups with an organization and the relations between them."
122,Outbound Traffic Filtering,Restricting network traffic originating from a private host or enclave destined towards untrusted networks.
123,Passive Certificate Analysis,Collecting host certificates from network traffic or other passive sources like a certificate transparency log and analyzing them for unauthorized activity.
124,Passive Logical Link Mapping,"Passive logical link mapping only listens to network traffic as a means to map the the whole data link layer, where the links represent logical data flows rather than physical connections."
125,Passive Physical Link Mapping,Passive physical link mapping only listens to network traffic as a means to map the physical layer.
126,Per Host Download-Upload Ratio Analysis,Detecting anomalies that indicate malicious activity by comparing the amount of data downloaded versus data uploaded by a host.
127,Peripheral Firmware Verification,Cryptographically verifying peripheral firmware integrity.
128,Physical Link Mapping,Physical link mapping identifies and models the link connectivity of the network devices within a physical network.
129,Platform Hardening,
130,Platform Monitoring,
131,Pointer Authentication,Comparing the cryptographic hash or derivative of a pointer's value to an expected value.
132,Process Analysis,
133,Process Code Segment Verification,"Comparing the ""text"" or ""code"" memory segments to a source of truth."
134,Process Eviction,
135,Process Lineage Analysis,"Identification of suspicious processes executing on an end-point device by examining the ancestry and siblings of a process, and the associated metadata of each node on the tree, such as process execution, duration, and order relative to siblings and ancestors."
136,Process Segment Execution Prevention,Preventing execution of any address in a memory region other than the code segment.
137,Process Self-Modification Detection,"Detects processes that modify, change, or replace their own code at runtime."
138,Process Spawn Analysis,Analyzing spawn arguments or attributes of a process to detect processes that are unauthorized.
139,Process Suspension,Suspending a running process on a computer system.
140,Process Termination,Terminating a running application process on a computer system.
141,Protocol Metadata Anomaly Detection,Collecting network communication protocol metadata and identifying statistical outliers.
142,Reissue Credential,Issue a new credential to a user which supercedes their old credential.
143,Relay Pattern Analysis,The detection of an internal host relaying traffic between the internal network and the external network.
144,Remote Terminal Session Detection,Detection of an unauthorized remote live terminal console session by examining network traffic to a network host.
145,Resource Access Pattern Analysis,Analyzing the resources accessed by a user to identify unauthorized activity.
146,Restore Access,
147,Restore Configuration,Restoring an software configuration.
148,Restore Database,Restoring the data in a database.
149,Restore Disk Image,Restoring a previously captured disk image a hard drive.
150,Restore Email,Restoring an email for an entity to access.
151,Restore File,Restoring a file for an entity to access.
152,Restore Network Access,Restoring a entity's access to a computer network.
153,Restore Object,
154,Restore Software,Restoring software to a host.
155,Restore User Account Access,Restoring a user account's access to resources.
156,Reverse Resolution Domain Denylisting,Blocking a reverse DNS lookup's answer's domain name value.
157,Reverse Resolution IP Denylisting,Blocking a reverse lookup based on the query's IP address value.
158,RF Shielding,Adding physical barriers to a platform to prevent undesired radio interference.
159,RPC Traffic Analysis,Monitoring the activity of remote procedure calls in communication traffic to establish standard protocol operations and potential attacker activities.
160,Scheduled Job Analysis,"Analysis of source files, processes, destination files, or destination servers associated with a scheduled job to detect unauthorized use of job scheduling."
161,Script Execution Analysis,Analyzing the execution of a script to detect unauthorized user activity.
162,Segment Address Offset Randomization,Randomizing the base (start) address of one or more segments of memory during the initialization of a process.
163,Sender MTA Reputation Analysis,Characterizing the reputation of mail transfer agents (MTA) to determine the security risk in emails.
164,Sender Reputation Analysis,Ascertaining sender reputation based on information associated with a message (e.g. email/instant messaging).
165,Service Binary Verification,Analyzing changes in service binary files by comparing to a source of truth.
166,Service Dependency Mapping,Service dependency mapping determines the services on which each given service relies.
167,Session Duration Analysis,Analyzing the duration of user sessions in order to detect unauthorized  activity.
168,Shadow Stack Comparisons,Comparing a call stack in system memory with a shadow call stack maintained by the processor to determine unauthorized shellcode activity.
169,Software Inventory,Software inventorying identifies and records the software items in the organization's architecture.
170,Software Update,Replacing old software on a computer system component.
171,Stack Frame Canary Validation,Comparing a value stored in a stack frame with a known good value in order to prevent or detect a memory segment overwrite.
172,Standalone Honeynet,An environment created for the purpose of attracting attackers and eliciting their behaviors that is not connected to any production enterprise systems.
173,Strong Password Policy,Modifying system configuration to increase password strength.
174,System Call Analysis,Analyzing system calls to determine whether a process is exhibiting unauthorized behavior.
175,System Call Filtering,Configuring a kernel to use an allow or deny list to filter kernel api calls.
176,System Configuration Permissions,Restricting system configuration modifications to a specific user or group of users.
177,System Daemon Monitoring,Tracking changes to the state or configuration of critical system level processes.
178,System Dependency Mapping,System dependency mapping identifies and models the dependencies of system components on each other to carry out their function.
179,System File Analysis,"Monitoring system files such as authentication databases, configuration files, system logs, and system executables for modification or tampering."
180,System Firmware Verification,Cryptographically verifying installed system firmware integrity.
181,System Init Config Analysis,Analysis of any system process startup configuration.
182,System Mapping,
183,System Vulnerability Assessment,"System vulnerability assessment relates all the vulnerabilities of a system's components in the context of their configuration and internal dependencies and can also include assessing risk emerging from the system's design as a whole, not just the sum of individual component vulnerabilities."
184,TPM Boot Integrity,Assuring the integrity of a platform by demonstrating that the boot process starts from a trusted combination of hardware and software and continues until the operating system has fully booted and applications are running.  Sometimes called Static Root of Trust Measurement (STRM).
185,Transfer Agent Authentication,Validating that server components of a messaging infrastructure are authorized to send a particular message.
186,Unlock Account,Restoring a user account's access to resources by unlocking a locked User Account.
187,URL Analysis,Determining if a URL is benign or malicious by analyzing the URL or its components.
188,URL Reputation Analysis,Analyzing the reputation of a URL.
189,User Account Permissions,Restricting a user account's access to resources.
190,User Behavior Analysis,
191,User Data Transfer Analysis,Analyzing the amount of data transferred by a user.
192,User Geolocation Logon Pattern Analysis,Monitoring geolocation data of user logon attempts and comparing it to a baseline user behavior profile to identify anomalies in logon location.
193,User Session Init Config Analysis,Analyzing modifications to user session config files such as .bashrc or .bash_profile.
194,Web Session Activity Analysis,Monitoring changes in user web session behavior by comparing current web session activity to a baseline behavior profile or a catalog of predetermined malicious behavior.
